Fire.
I want to read one verse in your hearing.
Matthew chapter 9 verse 9, as Jesus went on from there.
He saw a man named Matthew sitting at the tax collector's booth.
Follow me, he told him.
And Matthew got up.
and followed Him.
Amen.
I want to preach on this first Sunday in 2026 as the Holy Spirit shall give me help from the topic, getting off to a great start.
Look at your neighbor, say neighbor.
We're going to get off to a great start.
Lord bless your word, bless your preacher, bless watch chapel, empower, enable, encourage, equip us in every area of life to get off to a great start.
Use your preacher now to encourage and challenge your people to get off to a great start.
In Jesus' name, amen.
How we start makes a difference.
How we start makes a difference in whatever
any and every area of life.
How we start makes a difference.
Whether you are a student beginning the new semester.
Whether you are the new kid in the neighborhood.
How we start.
makes a difference.
Whether you are a new boyfriend, girlfriend, or newlywed, how we start makes a difference.
Whether you are a new member of the organization group or club, how we start makes a difference.
What you do
in the first quarter of the game makes a difference.
How we began the first Sunday of the calendar year makes a difference.
How we start makes a difference.
I wish I had somebody who could testify that
how we begin the journey and how we start the journey and how we begin the race, how we begin the marriage, how we launch the relationship, how we begin makes a major difference.
If I'll start
is suspect and shaky.
That makes a difference.
If our start is mundane and mediocre, that makes a difference.
If our start is excellent and exceptional, that makes a difference.
How we start makes a difference.
The significance of how we begin and start is evident in the life of a man by the name of Matthew.
Many of us know this personality as one of the 12 disciples of our Savior and Lord Jesus Christ.
And while we know Matthew as one of the authors and evangelists
who penned one of the gospel narratives that describe the life and times of Jesus Christ.
We are introduced to Matthew here in the book that he wrote in the ninth chapter where Matthew, among many things, gets off to a great start.
This beginning is significant because
Matthew gets off to a great start despite his past.
Matthew didn't grow up going to a wana.
Matthew didn't grow up in vacation Bible school.
Matthew didn't grow up in Hebrew school.
Matthew didn't grow up exposed to the teachings of the Judeo tradition.
But many of us know that Matthew was a Jewish man named Levi, who was a tax collector.
As a tax collector, Levi, who became Matthew, had an infamous reputation.
Jews saw him as a sellout turncoat because he worked for the Roman government.
But now we find Levi who becomes Matthew at the tax collectors booth working for the Roman IRS and out of seemingly nowhere.
Jesus Christ, Son of God, Mary's baby, Ferris of 10,000, Rose of Sharon, extends an opportunity for Levi
Matthew to get off to a great start.
Despite his past, Levi, Matthew, the text says gets off to a great start.
Regardless of what he did in 86, 96, 06, or 16, he gets off to a great start.
And on this first Sunday in January, Matthew is a parable lesson
to you and I who have come to watch chapel for a word of encouragement to get off to a great start.
If Levi can get off to a great start, there's nothing stopping you and I from getting off to a great start.
Regardless of what happened last decade or last year, you can get off to a great start.
Regardless of what happened, New Year's Eve or what didn't happen, New Year's Eve, you can get off to a great start.
Regardless of what happened last week, yesterday or last night, you and I can get off to a great start.
And somebody has made their way to watch chapel wondering if I can get off to a great start.
You don't know what I've been through.
They repossess my automobile.
They're about to file bankruptcy.
I'm wrestling with heartache and heartbreak.
My children are acting a fool.
I'm going through my own drama and trauma.
And I'm wondering if 2026 is going to be different than 16.
If it's going to be different than last year, I've come by to encourage everybody that yes, you can get off
to a great thought.
I don't care what you went through last year, what didn't work out last year, while you failed last year, how you didn't dot every eye or cross every tee.
If Levi can get off to a great start and become a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ, who writes a gospel that we are reading from 2000 years later, there's nothing stopping you and I from getting off to a great start and becoming who
God says we can become.
Somebody raises the question, preacher, how do I get off to a great start?
Matthew gives the model an example on how we can get off to a great start.
We can get off to a great start, watch chapel, when you and I burn bridges.
I know it sounds offensive.
I know it sounds radical.
I know it sounds extreme.
But if we are going to be the new you that we can be, if we're going to have all that God says we can have, be who God says we can be and do, all that God says we can do, there's some bridges that we just got to burn.
Can I preach this?
The text says that when Jesus came and said, follow me.
Matthew doesn't stay around.
Matthew doesn't vacillate.
He doesn't hesitate.
He doesn't wonder.
He doesn't ponder.
He doesn't debate.
But the text says he gets up and follows Jesus.
There are some bridges that we got to burn.
If we're going to live in 2026, you got to burn 2016.
You got to burn 2019.
You got to burn the pandemic.
You got to burn 2025 and press towards the mark in 2026.
As long as we are hanging around, how we used to do, how we used to act, how we used to react, how we used to behave, how we used to respond, we are always going to be stuck in a holding pattern.
But I'm challenging somebody right now in 2026.
On January 4th, there's some bridges we got to burn.
Old things ought to pass away.
All things got to become new.
There's some old habits I got to let go of.
There's some old ways of talking I got to let go of.
There's some old ways of thinking I got to let go of.
There's some old ways of responding I like to let go of.
There's some old bridges in my life that I can't carry along with me, but I got to burn so I can press to become who God wants me to become.
Let me see if I can make it plain.
I've told some of y'all this story before.
Some of y'all who are new disciples have never heard this, but I can say it again.
My wife ain't here right now.
I can say it, amen.
My wife and I have been married 28 years, May 30th, 2026, amen.
28 years, amen.
This time, about 29 years ago, I made the sanctified decision to ask my wife's hand to be my rib, amen.
And my wife said, okay, I'm gonna be your wife and be your rib, but let's have a conversation before I say yes.
All the sisters gonna say amen.
And all the brothers know where I'm going.
She said, let me just be clear.
I don't know who you've been dealing with.
Amen, somebody.
But you got to get on the phone, call them, say there's a new Chantay in town.
If it's gonna be me and you, it's gonna be me and you.
It ain't gonna be me, you, them, her, and she.
It's gonna be me and you.
Can I preach this?
In other words, just the girl, amen, said you got to burn some bridges.
Can I make this plain?
And I'm trying to bless somebody right now if you're going to press towards the mark and be who God wants you to be.
There's some bridges you got to burn.
Can I call the roll and keep preaching this thing?
If you're going to press, you got to leave the gin and tonic alone.
You got to leave the loud alone.
Y'all ain't talkin' to me in here.
There's some stuff we got to leave alone and bridges we got to burn to be who God wants us to be.
If I'm gonna get off to a great start, I gotta burn some bridges.
Not only do I have to burn bridges, the text says that Matthew gets up
Jesus says, follow me.
And the text says that Matthew extends an invitation to the other tax collectors and sinners, and they come to the house where Matthew resides, and Jesus is the guest of honor.
The text says that Matthew cannot preach this as he gets off to a great start, not only burns bridges,
but he pursues progress.
Getting off to a great start ain't just what you stop doing.
It's also what you begin doing.
The text says that he follows him, fellowships with him, and is in the presence of Jesus Christ.
In so many cases, when we begin a new year, we talk about what we ain't gonna do.
I ain't gonna smoke no more.
I ain't gonna drink no more.
I ain't gonna Netflix and chill until I get a ring.
I ain't gonna go here no more.
I ain't gonna go there.
I ain't gonna spend no money that I ain't heard yet no more.
But we never talk about what we're going to do.
Life is not only about what you stop doing.
The Christian life is also about holy habits and what you do.
And I'm challenging every believer, make up your mind.
You are never going to be perfect, but you and I can pursue progress.
Can I preach this?
The text says that Matthew follows him and Matthew fellowships with him.
And I'm challenging everybody in every area of your life to pursue progress.
What is God calling you to do?
Who is God calling you to be?
What is God calling you to have?
If God calls you to be something, it requires progress.
If God calls us to have something, it requires progress.
You gotta make up your mind.
We are going to pursue progress.
Last year, you only read the word on Wednesday and Sunday.
But this year you're going to read the word every day God allows you to see.
Last year you only came to worship once a month.
But this year you're going to come every Sunday, all God allows you to see.
Last year you would cuss and fuss.
But this year you're going to pray and compliment.
Last year, you were moody, but this year, your mind is made up that you're gonna have an attitude of gratitude.
Last year, you reacted, but this year, you're gonna respond.
Last year, you tipped God.
This year, you're gonna tie it under God.
Last year, you ran with anybody, but this year, you're gonna have iron that sharpens iron.
That's gonna be progress.
In your life, can I make this plain?
Perfection is never attainable.
But if I make up in my mind with the power of the Holy Spirit, I'm gonna make progress 24-7, 365, if any man be in Christ.
If any woman be in Christ, all things have passed away and all things are becoming new.
I'm gonna make progress in January, February, March, April, May, June, July.
I'm gonna make progress
on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, and by this time next year, I'm going to be brand new because I've made progress.
I'm getting off to a great start because I'm burning some bridges.
I'm getting off to a great start because I'm pursuing progress, not perfection.
I'm getting off to a great start because I'm walking in who I am, not who I was.
Come on, help me close this.
The text says that when we are introduced to him, his name is Levi.
But the text says, we are reading from the Gospel of Matthew.
Same person.
Different agenda.
He used to be Levi.
But he became Matthew.
Come on, talk to me.
And when you get off to a great start to watch, Tappo, you ain't walking in who you used to be.
But you are walking in who you are.
Can I preach this to the real folk in here?
You got a past.
Every saint up in here got a used to be.
Every holy person got a history, but praise be to God that the God we serve doesn't keep us where we were, but allows us to walk in who we are, not who we used to be.
And I'm talking to the Levi's in the room.
I'm talking to the Levi Eddas in the room.
You ain't a Levi Edda anymore.
You ain't Levi anymore.
But God has changed your name to Matthew.
Can I preach this?
Do I have anybody who ain't the same person you used to be?
You wasn't thinking about being in church on Sunday morning.
First Sunday in the year, you still hung over.
You still layin' up somewhere.
But praise be to God.
I ain't who I used to be.
I ain't who I'm gonna be yet.
But praise God.
I ain't who I used to be.
I used to be this and that, but now I'm a man of God.
I used to be her and him, but now I'm a woman of God.
I used to be that, but I ain't that no more.
I'm saved.
I'm sanctified.
I'm Holy Ghost Field.
I'm praising God.
I'm worshiping God.
I ain't a hell you no more.
I'm a saint of the most heart card.
Can I call your name for who you are right now?
Annointed.
Blessed, consecrated, disciple, empowered, faithful, evangelist, holy, sanctified.
Can I with a witness in here?
Let me just call you blessed.
Can I call you blessed?
Anybody blessed on the Sunday morning?
Thank God!
I ain't who I used to be, but I'm getting off to a great stop!
I'm walking in who I am!
Not who I used to be!
I ain't an atheist no more!
I'm an advocate!
I ain't a hell you no more!
My name is Hallelujah!
I ain't a demon no more!
I'm a disciple!
Praise God!
For whom our blessings flow!
They can't change my name!
I ain't leave that no more!
I'm massive!
I ain't leave here to no more!
Stand till your feet!
Tell your neighbor you can get off to a great start.
Look on the other side, say, you gon' get off to a great start.
Burn them bridges.
Trash man come out tomorrow.
Go throw some stuff away.
Trash man and recycle man come tomorrow.
If you don't have access to it, you can't touch it.
Pursue progress.
I don't know yet.
No, yes, you can.
You can.
Matthew was a tax collector and he wrote the book we're reading from 2000 years later.
Walk in who you are.
That's some stuff you don't answer to no more.
Ain't nothing like sisters, brother.
Hey, hey, hey.
I know you ain't talking to me.
Hey, it's for horses.
Every sister just keep on what?
Hey, I'm keep on stepping.
Because there's some stuff you can't call me.
There's some stuff I don't answer to.
That ain't my name.
But you got to call me.
You got to speak who I am.
Come on now.
I'm talking to somebody this morning, my brother, my sister.
This day is the first Sunday in the new year.
I'm calling you right now.
My brother, sister, walk down the aisle right now.
You're not saved.
You don't have a church home.
You need to be connected to the watch chapel, Missionary Baptist Church.
I want you to come forward now.
I'm not calling you who you were.
I'm challenging you to hear as a brother coming right now.
I want you to get off to a great start.
I'm asking you to do what the book says.
Here's another couple coming right now.
Have a seat right here on this front row, amen.
The Bible says follow me.
Here's somebody else coming right now, amen.
If you're in the overflow, come on down.
There's some deacons, there's some preachers over there.
They'll walk you down.
Amen.
Here's another brother coming right now.
The Bible says, here's another sister coming right now.
The Bible says, follow me.
Have a seat right here, brother.
I want you to follow Jesus.
And you follow me as I follow the Lord Jesus Christ.
Come on, come on, walk down there, wherever you are.
It says, come and have a seat right here.
Have a seat right here.
Right there beside that gentleman, amen.
The Bible says, follow me.
I'm talking, I don't care what happened last year.
I don't care what didn't happen.
You're gonna get off to a great start.
And we get off to a great start with Jesus Christ.
Jesus came to Matthew and said, follow me.
Matthew got up, burned some bridges, and followed Jesus.
I'm extending to the same opportunity for you today, my brother, my sister, to follow Jesus Christ.
I'm talking to you, there's some more people right now
Come on, brother.
Come on, sister.
You may be in the overflow.
You may be online virtual.
I want you to find if you're online virtually, you can join virtually.
There's a tab that says contact us.
Follow.
Amen.
You go to that tab on our website and you unite.
If I'm talking to you, if you're on the campus somewhere, watch that.
I want you to come right now.
and follow the Lord Jesus, I want you to get off to a great start.
Don't allow the enemy to tell you you can't be who God says you can be.
The devil is a liar.
The devil profits from us being stuck who we used to be.
Girl, you know you don't have no business down in any church.
You remember Homecoming, October?
October, yesterday.
Come on, brother.
Come on, sister.
I'm speaking to you right now, wherever you are.
You're not saved.
You don't have a church home.
I'm speaking to you.
I wonder if, yeah, I'm talking to you.
Yes.
Come on.
Walk down the aisle now.
Matthew didn't procrastinate.
talking to somebody about, do it now.
Do it now.
Put off procrastination.
Come on, walk down the aisle right now.
Come on.
Here's somebody coming.
Come on, sis.
God bless you.
Have a seat right here.
Now I'm gonna wait till next, I'm gonna wait till king weekend.
Now you come now.
You know we go into the Super Bowl.
No, you come now.
Come on.
Put off, procrastination.
Come on, brother.
Come on, sister.
Lord, I thank you right now for these men and women who have come to give their lives to you.
I thank you now for everybody who's going to get off to a great start.
I pray now your blessings upon these men and women of God.
Don't allow anything to deter, distract, discombobulate them.
I pray now that you grow them, mature them, pray God that we take care of them as disciples.
Let's help them become disciples in the name of Jesus.
The people of God said, Amen.
Amen.
Be seated, amen.
Let's thank and praise God for these persons who have come.
our deacons and associate ministers are coming now as we prepare to serve the Lord's Supper.
Amen.
unappreciative convict us in Jesus name help us every day each day to concentrate on your character or your character is awesome character is redemptive concentrate less on stuff and more on you and who you are
Listen to how in Jesus name, people of God said amen, amen, amen.
Tell somebody we're gonna have thanksgiving every day.
College making life decisions as you come to the altars, come all the way down, step all the way forward.
Should I marry him?
Should I marry her?
Should we move in together before we get married?
Come on now, I'm talking good.
We gonna save some money.
Now, it ain't worth it, that, amen.
Don't act like y'all don't hear past the talking.
Should I tithe?
Should I not tithe?
Should I save money?
Should I spend it, amen?
Should we create a budget?
Amen.